---
title: Open Source Intelligence Gathering Practice 8
date: 2024-10-14 12:00:00 -500
categories: [blog, Tech Review]
tags: [cyber, security, AI, review]
image: /pictures/top3ai/Unknown.jpeg
---


# 3 Cybersecurity AI Tools to Watch in Winter 2024 


Artificial Intelligence (AI) is making a substantial impact across industries in 2024, with major players like Google unveiling Gemini, Apple introducing Apple Intelligence, and Elon Musk presenting innovations in AI robotics. These developments highlight how AI continues to shape the technology landscape.

This transformative influence has also extended into cybersecurity, where AI is redefining defense strategies against evolving threats.

Here are three noteworthy AI-driven cybersecurity tools to watch this winter.


## 1. Darktrace


**Creator:** Poppy Gustafsson 

**Specialty:** Threat Detection and Response

**Description:** Founded by mathematicians and cyber defense experts at Invoke Capital, Darktrace employs unsupervised machine learning techniques to develop a comprehensive 'pattern of life' representation for every device, network, and user within an organization. [Learn More](https://darktrace.com/)


## 2. Tessian 


**Creator:** Tim Sadler, Ed Bishop, and Tom Adams 

**Specialty:** Cloud-based Email Security

**Description:** Tessian is designed to defend against sophisticated phishing threats and safeguard sensitive email data. Leveraging a range of analytical techniques—behavioral analysis, content, and threat network—Tessian provides a robust, multi-layered approach to identifying and neutralizing potential attacks. [Learn More](https://www.tessian.com/#:~:text=The%20Tessian%20platform%20uses%20a,across%20the%20entire%20Tessian%20community.)



## 3. Vectra AI 


**Creator:** Hitesh Sheth

**Specialty:** Threat Detection and Response

**Description:** Vectra AI leverages advanced AI technology to swiftly detect, categorize, and prioritize actively evolving attacks. Through a sophisticated correlation algorithm, Vectra analyzes behaviors across accounts, hosts, and other entities, delivering a clear and actionable signal for any security incident. [Learn More](https://www.vectra.ai/topics/ai-security)

